#### Triggers in SQL 
A PostgreSQL trigger is a function called automatically whenever an event such as an insert, update, or deletion occurs.

A PostgreSQL trigger can be defined to fire in the following cases:

Before attempting any operation on a row (before constraints are checked and the INSERT, UPDATE or DELETE is attempted).
When an operation has been completed (after constraints are checked and the INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE has been completed).
In spite of the operation (in the case of INSERT, UPDATE, or DELETE on a view).


###### Advantages of SQL Triggers

1) It helps in maintaining the integrity constraints in the database tables, especially when the primary key and foreign key constrain are not defined.

2) It sometimes also helps in keeping the SQL codes short and simple as I show in the real-life example.

3) It helps in maintaining the track of all the changes (update, deletion and insertion) occurs in the tables through inserting the changes values in the audits tables.

4) Sometimes if the code is not well managed, then it can help in maintaining the database constraints defined on the tables on which the trigger is defined. For example, suppose if have a situation that there is an online learning system in which a user can register in the multiple course.

###### Disadvantages of Triggers

1) Hard to maintain since this may be a possibility that the new developer doesn’t able to know about the trigger defined in the database and wonder how data is inserted, deleted or updated automatically.

2) They are hard to debug since they are difficult to view as compared to stored procedures, views, functions, etc.

3) Excessive or over use of triggers can slow down the performance of the application since if we defined the triggers in many tables then they kept automatically executing every time data is inserted, deleted or updated in the tables (based on the trigger’s definition) and it makes the processing very slow.

4) If complex code is written in the triggers, then it will slow down the performance of the applications.

5) The cost of creation of triggers can be more on the tables on which frequency of DML (insert, delete and update)  operation like bulk insert is high.

http://www.techmixing.com/2018/12/sql-triggers-introduction.html
https://aviyadav231.medium.com/automatically-updating-a-timestamp-column-in-postgresql-using-triggers-98766e3b47a0